Project Progress Report #1
Purpose
This is your first progress report for your long-term project.
You have had 3 days to work, so this report should show:
        •       what you’ve actually built so far
        •       what you understand
        •       what you’re struggling with
What You Must Submit
1. Current Code (REQUIRED)
Submit the latest version of your code, even if it is incomplete or not working. Copy and Paste a link to your sandbox below:

https://github.com/aartisr/aether/tree/longterm_project


2. What You Have Completed
Write 4–6 sentences below, explaining:
        •       What features you have built so far
        •       What parts of your program are working
        •       What you are most proud of so far

In this reporting period, I made measurable progress by building Aether as a monorepo with a Next.js frontend and a Node.js backend, and integrating TypeScript and Jest into the workflow.
I created and validated a focused longterm_project branch where the website scope is intentionally reduced to the Home and Mentors pages, while preserving required support files for routing, layout, metadata, and navigation.
I completed technical cleanup by aligning page-flag logic and shared navigation behavior across UI and machine-readable routes, including sitemap and robots.
Current quality results confirm stability: frontend and backend tests pass, and the frontend production build compiles successfully.
The result I am most proud of is simplifying scope without losing reliability, which shows clear progress toward a maintainable final project.










3. What You Are Currently Working On
Write 2–4 sentences below, explaining:
        •       What feature are you building right now?
        •       What is your next step?

I am currently polishing the simplified Home + Mentors experience to ensure it is clean, stable, and submission-ready.
My immediate next step is improving content quality and page copy on those routes, followed by updated screenshots and deployment notes for evidence.
After this pass, I will add features incrementally so each change can be tested, reviewed, and stabilized before moving forward.



4. Challenges / Problems
Write at least 1 specific challenge (or more!) that you are currently facing, such as:
        •       Something that is not working
        •       Something you don’t understand yet
        •       A bug you can’t fix
Note: Be specific. Don’t just type “this feature is hard because I don’t know how to do it.”

One active challenge is maintaining a consistent visual language while the project is still evolving quickly.
To keep the interface generic and reusable, I am using shared theme tokens, layout components, and common section patterns instead of page-specific styling.
The specific issue is that one theme or component change can affect multiple areas at once (for example spacing, contrast, and hierarchy), which can introduce instability.
I am addressing this through iterative stabilization: apply a small UI change, validate Home and Mentors behavior, then proceed only after confirming the previous change is stable.
This method is improving consistency and reducing regression risk over time.



5. Code Explanation (VERY IMPORTANT)
Choose one part of your code and explain:
        •       What it does
        •       How it works
You can copy and paste a code snippet from your sandbox below, and explain what it does. Just like the last section, be specific. Don’t just write “This is a function that averages the list of numbers given to it as a list.” Provide a more detailed explanation of the code, please.

Code snippet (from src/app/page.tsx):

const visibleSections = getPrimarySiteSectionsForRequest();

const itemListJsonLd = {
        ...createItemListJsonLd(
                visibleSections.map((section) => ({
                        name: section.name,
                        url: toAbsoluteUrl(section.path),
                        description: section.description,
                })),
        ),
};

<LinkCardGrid
        className="mt-6"
        items={visibleSections.slice(1).map((section) => ({
                title: section.name,
                href: section.path,
                description: section.description,
        }))}
/>

I selected this Home page section because it demonstrates one of the most challenging and valuable architectural patterns in the project.
The key idea is a single source of truth (`visibleSections`) that drives both user-facing navigation content and structured JSON-LD metadata for search engines.
This is important because it keeps what students see and what search engines index aligned, improving trust, clarity, and discoverability.
The global Header and Footer design reinforces this architecture: the Header provides consistent navigation and trust cues, while the Footer keeps safety guidance, machine-readable links, and project identity visible on every page.
From a technical standpoint, this pattern reduces regression risk because updates in one location propagate automatically to UI structure, navigation behavior, and metadata outputs.







6. Evidence of Work
You must include at least one of the following:
        •       A screenshot of your program running
        •       Sample output
        •       A short description of what currently happens when you run it

Sample output from running tests:

Test Suites: 15 passed, 15 total
Tests:       68 passed, 68 total
Snapshots:   3 passed, 3 total

Backend test output:
tests 4
pass 4
fail 0

Current runtime behavior:
When I run npm run dev, the frontend starts at http://localhost:3000 and serves only the Home and Mentors pages, with functioning navigation and metadata routes.








































How This Will Be Graded
You will be graded on:
        •       Effort (Did you actually work on your project over the past 3 days?)
        •       Progress (Is something being built?)
        •       Clarity (Can you explain your work?)
        •       Specificity (Are your answers detailed or vague?)
Your final project at the end of this month will be worth 50% of your project grade for this quarter, the sum of these project reports will be worth 40%, and you’ll have a peer review + project showcase at the end worth the final 10%. Depending on your performance in all 3 areas, I may or may not award up to an additional 5% extra credit towards your final quarter grade.
